Welcome everyone to this lecture on the left outer join otherwise known simply as just a left join a
LEFT OUTER JOIN results in the set of records that are in the left table.
If there is no match with the right table then those results are null.
Later on we will learn how to add where statements to further modify a LEFT OUTER JOIN So what is a
left outer join actually look like here.
Notice that our Venn diagram is no longer symmetrical which means the order will actually matter.
Here we're saying select everything from table lay and do a left outer join on table be the left hand
table is the first table referred to in that from statement so it's Y table a there is seen on the left.
So we're saying select everything from table A A LEFT OUTER JOIN ON TABLE be on table a column match
is equal to Table B that column match so notice we're essentially just grabbing information from table
A where there's either exclusive table a or table has a match with something in Table B if something
is only found in Table B then it is not going to be returned in the query and again recall that a left
outer join can be Shorten to this left join in circle syntax so it doesn't matter if you use left join
or left outer join now because of this a cemetery.
This is where beginning students often get confused.
Previously everything we saw ever was symmetrical in that Venn diagram which means the table ordered
that it mattered when it comes to a left hand or join your left join the order does matter because we
have to actually specify what the left table is going to be.
So those here we're saying table A which means we're gonna grab things that are exclusive to table a
or can be found in both.
Table a table B we're not going to be returning anything exclusive to Table B so again not returning
anything exclusive the table B so let's explore a left outer join with our two example tables here we
have registrations and Loggins so we're going to say here is say select everything from registrations
performing left outer join on Loggins on registrations that name equal to Loggins not name and what
does this actually look like.
Well it's going to return the following recall that we're gonna grab everything from the registrations
table and if there happens to be a match with the Loggins table we'll go ahead and return it if there
is no match we're still gonna grab that information from the left hand table which is from registrations
but because there's nothing in table before it we're going to fill it in with no notice that things
that were exclusive to the right hand table that is the Loggins table or table B that was here and Yolanda
we don't actually see them in this result of the left outer join.
Previously when we saw a full outer join we did see those results but now because we're specifying a
left outer join we only see things based on that left hand registrations table it either belongs to
both tables or only two registrations if it only belonged to Loggins we don't see it returned here so
again everything from registrations ends up showing up in this left outer join.
Which is why it's critical to remember that table order does matter in the sequel query syntax.
When it comes to a left outer join or a left join.
Now we can further qualify this with a where statement to get Rose unique only to the left table so
for instance what if we only wanted entries unique to table a.
Those are rows found in table a and not found in Table B.
So we're essentially just grabbing rows unique to table a not found this other table so the way we do
that is by saying the following.
We're going to again select from table A do A LEFT OUT OR JOIN ON TABLE B specify that column to match
on and then we're gonna say we're table B is null because of Table B is no that means the resulting
rows would only be unique to table a So recall this was our previous query.
This is just the left out or join registrations and Loggins and what we're gonna do here is we take
a look at the log and I.D. column we notice we have those no values so we're gonna say here is go ahead
and grab where log and start log I.D. is null and because the Loggins I.D. That is from the right hand
table or table B was no.
This answers the question that these particular rows are exclusive to the left hand table or the registrations
table.
So Charlie and David could only be found in the registrations table.
They cannot be found in the Loggins table.
So this is a left out or join with an additional specification to only grab tables unique to the left
hand table that is table a or registrations.
In this example so definitely take your time with these and feel free to watch this video a couple more
times.
Sometimes it takes students just a couple of times watching this video to truly get the understanding
of a left outer join.
This is the most complicated join because it is a non symmetrical join so let's see some examples of
a left outer join and P.G. admin.
If this is still a little fuzzy to you I would highly recommend that you go back watch us from the beginning
just let things submit theoretically and then come with us and join some secret queries and PGI admin.
Okay.
Gonna hop over to P.G. admin now.
All right the two tables were going to be exploring for this particular example is the film table which
I can just select everything first from the film table so we can get an idea of what's in it.
So I run this.
We have a film I.D. which is a unique identifier per film.
The film's title a description really seer language idea rental duration etc. So we have that information
here.
Basically information about the film.
The other table will be taking a look at is the inventory table.
So the inventory table if we run this it basically has a unique inventory I.D. and then the film I.D.
which matches up with the film table and then the store I.D..
So essentially this says that we have film by the one located in store I.D. one and then we have another
repeat essentially a duplicate copy of film I.D. one also in store I.D. one.
So this essentially begins to imply that we have multiple copies of films in certain stores and we also
have the possibility of films only being located in one of our two stores.
So let's start exploring this.
Keep in mind each row in the film table may have zero or many rows in the inventory table.
So for example we have film ideas one is currently in inventory both in-store i.e. one in-store I.D.
2.
So we have lots of copies of film I.D. one in both stores.
So what I'm going to do is the following we'll say select film the film I.D. film that title and then
inventory I.D. So the reason I specify inventory idea for tables because it's unique to the inventory
table however film I.D. can be found in the film table.
And in fact title is actually unique to the film tables.
I don't need to mention that as a table as well.
So we have select film I.D. title and inventory I.D. And this is where we're going to do our joint will
say select from film left and you can say either left outer join or just left join.
Those are syntax wise the same thing we're going to say inventory on inventory the film I.D. equal to
film that film I.D. we run this and know what we're having here.
So basically telling us the film I.D. the title that belongs that film and then its specific inventory
I.D..
And if I wanted to I could expand on this by asking for also the store I.D. I could run this again and
I can see we have academy dinosaur multiple copies and store one as well as multiple copies in store
too.
So that is a left join essentially showing us the left joining of film on inventory.
So what does that actually mean.
Because film is on the left hand side.
I'm only going to see rows that are either in just to film table or in both film and inventory.
Right now I am not seeing any films where they happen to only be in inventory for some reason but not
have some sort of title attached so because some rows in the film table do not have corresponding rows
in the inventory table we would see that the values of the inventory I.D. are no.
So there's lots of rows here but eventually you scroll down you may find something to be known.
So what I'm going to do here is show you that we're going to say where the inventory dot film I.D. note
here how I have to specify the table for film I.D. because it is found in both tables and I'm going
to say is no I'm going to run that and often you also see no being all caps.
So keep in mind you can also just do all caps no run that and it looks the same.
It's up to you whichever manner you prefer.
But what does this actually showing us this is showing us a film I.D. a unique identifier for the film
as well as a title and it's showing you that we don't have this in inventory which means essentially
if someone comes up to us and they ask Hi where or what store can I find Alice Fantasia in we can do
this query and it basically answers it that we don't actually have Alice Fantasia in our inventory.
In fact we don't have any of these movies currently either in our inventory or in any store.
We have information on them.
I can tell you the release date or the actors in them et cetera from the film table and maybe doing
other joins.
But unfortunately right now we don't have them in inventory.
And so here you can begin to see the use case for a left outer join essentially showing us films that
we have information about but that are not in our inventory because we're specifically checking where
that inventory film I.D. is null.
OK so that's it for this lecture on the left join.
Keep in mind we're going to get more practice on this with your challenge questions.
So feel free to review this lecture as many times as necessary.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.